[exciting opening theme music plays]
[loud, metallic thud]
Hey, sweethearts, get a move on!
You getting ready
for a party or something?
Quit dawdling
or you'll get a kick in the ass!
[inmates walking]
[guard] All cells, report!
[inmate 1] Cell one, clear!
[inmate 2] Cell two, clear!
-[inmate 3] Cell three, clear!
-[inmate 4] Cell four, clear!
-[inmate 5] Cell five, clear!
-[Baki] It's like being in the army.
[whacks] Needless to say, you punks
are nothing but human garbage!
I don't wanna hear a peep out of you.
And you'll be shot, without warning,
if you violate any of the rules in here.
Blame yourselves for being born stupid!
[Baki] Hmm?
[narrator] It was…
-[yawns]
-…a truly bizarre sight,
completely out of place in a prison.
-[gasps, clears throat]
-[guard] You have no freedoms whatsoever.
This is what your life's like now!
Again, blame yourselves
for being born stupid.
Get used to having no freedom!
[gasps in surprise]
[lighter clicks]
-You got that?
-[inmates] Yes, sir!
[Baki] No way! How is he getting away
with smoking in front of him like that?
What's for breakfast?
They're serving pork and beans.
-[running footsteps]
-[guard grunts]
-[Baki gasps]
-[guard] I told you no talking!
-[grunts]
-Aw, man.
I really don't like pork or beans.
[guard] All right, get to the cafeteria!
[cutlery clinking]
[narrator] The way that the guards acted
as though Number Two didn't even exist
was extremely strange to Baki.
He was the only prisoner
who got an omelet.
But not one
out of the over 4,000 other inmates
ever even thought to complain about it.
-[Guevaru] Hmm.
-[narrator] And then…
-Hey, you.
-[gasps]
-Did you get a new pistol?
-[whimpers]
[guard whimpers]
You had a revolver before this,
didn't you?
-[whimpers]
-Upgraded to an automatic, huh? Nice!
-[fly buzzing]
[guard shudders]
[mysterious music playing]
[guard gasps]
[dramatic sting]
Can't have flies in the cafeteria, can we?
-[whimpering]
-[fly buzzing]
[hand whooshes]
-[gasps]
-Take it outside and let it go.
-[guard gasping]
-[fly buzzing]
[cutlery clinking]
[narrator] But what topped
everything else that day
all started with the man
sitting across the table from Number Two.
Hey, take a look over at Number Two.
The man sitting across from him
is just about to challenge him.
Watch closely.
[Baki] He's big.
[old man] His background
is in sumo wrestling,
the national sport of your country.
After doing that,
he shifted to mixed martial arts
and became a champion
after only a few fights.
But when using his ridiculous strength
out in the streets,
he ended up getting nabbed
for manslaughter.
[munching] Mm.
[old man] He's never lost a fight
in Japan or the United States.
But then, the same could be said
for most of the guys in this prison.
-I hear they call you Number Two.
-[Guevaru munching]
[continues munching]
Mm.
[swallows] Mm.
Well, if people
are calling you Number Two around here,
maybe I oughta just
call myself Number One.
This thing is a pain.
[metal cracking]
[dramatic sting]
[chuckles]
[Baki] No one around here
seems very impressed.
Well, that's because they already know
exactly what's going to happen.
[chuckles]
See this?
Check it out.
It's so flexible.
It's all floppy, right?
Hey.
[whipcrack]
You see?
[dramatic sting]
[gasps] Oh!
And here we go.
[grunts]
-[metal scraping]
-[tense music playing]
[Baki gasps]
-[inmates gasping]
-Hey! Don't move!
[gulps, grunts in surprise]
If you're gonna show me up,
then you're gonna need to use strength,
not magic, Number Two.
Tell me something,
what'll you get
out of defeating me, anyway?
[inmates gasping]
Well, then I'd get to be the only free man
here in this damn prison.
Getting out of their cells to come eat
is just about the only thing
these guys have to look forward to.
And you took that away from them.
-Now that's a real crime.
-[chuckles]
-[whoosh]
-Huh?
-Uh-uh.
-[grunts]
Well, I don't wanna
take away your freedom.
It's really hard to watch this.
[chuckles] You've thought this through.
That gun gives you an excuse
for when you lose to me.
[grunts in surprise] Hmm?
[music building]
Make sure you hold it firmly.
And point it right at my head.
Now…
[grunts in confusion]
You're crazy.
[inmates murmuring]
[wrestler] You think I won't shoot you?
[groaning in pain]
[old man] Poor guy.
He really had no choice
but to pull the trigger.
Number Two's got him
right where he wants him.
[groaning]
[wrestler crashes to floor]
Today is a good day to die.
Was that kenpo?
No.
Number Two uses his own techniques.
[slurps]
[groaning]
What did you use against me just now?
What did I use?
Hmm…
Sumo?
[grunts in surprise]
Why, you bastard,
you think you can beat me in sumo?
[Guevaru] Of course that wasn't sumo.
I mean, I did kick you,
after all, didn't I?
But… if you really want me to,
I'd be glad to take you on in sumo.
[grunts uncertainly]
Hey, guards, I want to exercise
with him after breakfast.
So we'll be using the gym.
[guards] Hmm?
All right then,
now that we've gotten permission,
shall we go?
[suspenseful music playing]
Well, look at that.
A perfect sumo circle's already here.
[door slides open]
[scoffs] What a bunch of cowards.
Look, don't mind them.
They're just useless gawkers.
[grunts uncertainly]
[Guevaru] The Arizona
Grand Sumo Tournament
starts now.
So, uh, we're just gonna dive in?
What is it you say, "hakkeyoi"?
[wrestler growls]
All right, then.
[grunts]
[straining]
[groans] I should be
able to pick you up easy.
[Guevaru] There's no way
you can pick me up.
After all, in just a moment,
you're barely gonna be able to stand up.
-[slaps]
-[grunts]
[ominous heavy metal music playing]
[wrestler groans]
[squishing]
[ruptures]
[wrestler gasps] Off balance!
I'm about to fall over!
I gotta stand up!
[struggling]
And we have a winner.
[grunting in surprise]
[wrestler crashes to floor]
[wrestler] I lost.
I lost at sumo!
What was that technique?
-The hari-te slap?
-[slams]
Something in my ear just now…
[grunts]
You think I'd quit that easy?
[grunts in surprise]
[thuds loudly]
[groaning]
[wrestler groaning]
-[lighter clicks]
-[Guevaru inhales, exhales]
[exhales]
[footsteps departing]
-[guard] Hey.
-Huh?
[guard] What do you think
you're doing in here all by yourself?
[wrestler] Huh?
You can see that sign on the wall,
can't you?
[grunts uncertainly]
[guard] You know, normally,
I'd just shoot you right here and now,
without any warning.
But, since you're new here…
-[gunshot]
-[thuds heavily]
[bullet casing dings]
…I'll give you a heads-up first.
[cutlery clinking]
Hmm? Oh, hey, Mr. Baki.
The food's terrible, isn't it?
You know,
at first I thought
you were called Number Two
because you were the second strongest,
but that's not it.
You're exactly right.
It means "second generation."
'Cause I'm like the second Mr. Unchained.
Oliva's still Number One.
But the era of Mr. Oliva
has come to an end.
That's simply what everyone wants.
SUN
He lives an absurdly pampered lifestyle.
Honestly, no one sees him
as Number One anymore.
All that he really does is use
his strength to get whatever he wants.
At the end of the day,
both he and President Bush
are Americans through and through.
And you're trying to say you're not?
You know what? You're a real smart-ass.
No talking!
-[grunts]
-[whoosh]
Huh? Huh?!
-Huh?
-[Baki] Ooh, this baton…
[whooshing]
-…is all floppy! See?
-[footsteps running]
-[guard] Don't move!
-[dramatic sting]
Hmm!
[chuckles] All right.
[clangs]
[creaking]
[mysterious music plays]
[trolley approaching]
[guard] Chow time!
[door opens]
[door unlocking]
[grunts]
[gasps]
Shh.
[munching noisily]
Mm.
[slurps]
[old man] All they're giving you
is bread and a cup of soup.
I can't really see
why you'd need a knife or a fork for that.
[chuckles] Not to mention,
it's not like you could even use utensils
the way they've got you.
It's only your first day,
and you got yourself
into quite a situation.
So, that guy--
Oh, you mean Number Two?
What's his deal?
For one, he's a president.
What--
That said, it's of a country
no one has really heard of.
[rousing music plays]
Not that long ago,
it was nothing more than a remote island,
a small territory with a population
of less than 20,000 people.
His real name is Jun Guevaru,
a 21-year-old, third-generation
immigrant from Japan.
I'm not sure of the kanji for his name,
but it's something like this.
From "junsui" or "pure."
[old man] In English
he goes by J. Guevaru.
Back when he was just a young man,
he was an out-of-control delinquent.
He was involved in stealing and extortion.
Yeah, I heard that story before.
-Not this one, you haven't.
-[grunts in surprise]
Guevaru's crimes weren't in the streets.
-[squawking]
-Instead, they were out on the ocean.
In short, he was a pirate.
[Baki] That guy's a--
[old man] His method was simple.
He'd use his boat
to cut off a passenger ship
and force it to halt.
Then, using ropes,
he and his men would board the ship
and quickly take control of it.
And then steal everything.
Of course,
if that were the end of the story,
then he would have only been called,
"Guevaru, the extraordinary delinquent."
But everything reached a turning point
when he was 17.
What he witnessed then
was that the mainlanders
would come to the island
and use their money and power
to push around the locals
and exploit them for whatever they wanted.
Among the islanders,
from babies all the way up to the elderly,
there was a robust spirit
of camaraderie and cooperation.
Not only did they share their essentials,
they shared their joy and sadness as well.
But by then,
they weren't even treated like people,
just peons worthy of no more
than a pittance.
Capitalism was infringing
on the pride and culture of the islanders
and threatening to extinguish them.
And so, Guevaru set his sights
on achieving the island's independence.
When he was a younger boy,
he'd learned martial arts
by studying under his grandfather.
And he began teaching his followers.
At the time,
he forbade the use of weapons.
But that command wasn't to show off
some naive sense of justice.
Guevaru considered this
his mission in life,
backed by his faith in victory.
His training regimen was merciless.
His followers fought against the unarmed,
against weapons,
against guns,
and even against explosives.
Many men died
during the course of their training,
but not a single one of them
ever made the decision to quit.
That's how deeply connected they felt
to the vision
that Guevaru had shared with them.
Guevaru's weaponless army stood ready.
Injuries no longer scarred them.
With the backing of his followers
bolstering him,
Guevaru declared
his island's independence.
But because he was so young,
not all of the citizens of his country
believed what he said to them.
One man hated his words,
President George Bush.
[sighs]
All right, look, isn't there anything
we can do about this little island?
It seems the cries for independence
are only getting stronger.
[old man] And that's
when the incident occurred.
Just send some airplanes down there,
have 'em make a couple of low flybys.
You know, real close to the ground,
and then bam!
I mean, one shot'd be enough
to take out the whole island.
-If I may interject something, President.
-[Bush] Huh?
It seems to me
that a nation's independence
is something that should be respected.
If the will of that nation's people
is unified behind their leader, then--
Secretary James,
we aren't in front of any press
or cameras in here,
so give all that nonsense a rest, already.
I mean, just read the room, man.
More importantly, can the United States
allow so many people to defect?
Hmm… Defect?
This isn't about independence.
No, what I think this is really about
is 20,000 citizens trying to secede.
As leaders of the world,
do you really believe that we could
ever allow something like that to happen?
[Ray] For now, let's send in the military.
Ah!
We can say we're going there
to quell a coup d'état.
It's practically foolproof.
We'll control the media
from top to bottom on this matter.
That's just the kind of thing
I'd expect out of you, Secretary Ray.
Mr. Secretary,
how long 'til the Defense Department
can ready a deployment?
With the President's authorization,
as early as today.
Well, this is truly it!
The pioneer spirit that built our nation!
Huh?
Stop right there.
-[guards gasp]
-You boys, freeze!
[guards grunt uncertainly]
If you make any sudden moves,
I'll twist the President's spine
360 degrees!
And you don't wanna see that.
Now, all three of you agents
just turn around, face the wall,
and put your hands on it.
Hurry up or else!
[dramatic sting]
[Bush] Who-- Who are you?
My name's Chamomile Lessen.
I was recently hired
to be one of your personal bodyguards.
Also, I happen to be a citizen
of the very island
that's currently under discussion.
I'm a follower of J. Guevaru.
[men gasping]
[tense music playing]
All that we're asking for here is to be
allowed our right of independence.
You don't have
a problem with that, do you?
But your movement doesn't even
allow its followers to use any weapons.
Do you really think
you'll be able to get anywhere like that?
[Lessen] Two of our operatives have been
dispatched to each of the 50 states.
By now they've
established themselves there.
And it would only take one of them
to hijack a plane
or to seize a nuclear power plant
using nothing but their bare hands.
And, of course, the same is true for me.
[gasping in shock]
[shoes clack]
-If you will.
-[beeps]
Well, it appears
that stubborn attitude of yours
has finally quieted down a little bit.
It's just like over here where I'm at,
where the wind can often be
extremely strong and gusty,
but it's nothing more
than a gentle breeze against my skin.
Ah! No way! That's my house!
That's right, today I'm at the home
of none other than Mr. George Bush,
the current President
of the United States himself!
[whimpers]
Hey, what's the meaning of all this?
[Guevaru] I'm coming in!
[chuckling nervously]
Wow, how nice!
What a warm, friendly welcome
I'm receiving right now
from the wife and kids.
I mean, just look
at those big American smiles!
They're so bright thanks to the skylights
in this unnecessarily large living room.
It reminds me
of the island sunshine back at home.
We should remember
to give thanks for what we have
and to love our family and country.
We must love the whole human race.
Where's the Secret Service?
You love your dad, don't you?
Of course I do!
Me too!
[whimpering]
[Guevaru] So, as we conclude
our tour of this lovely home,
we stand in awe at everything
this president has going for him.
But perhaps, he should start
thinking of others for a change.
Well, see ya later!
[Lessen] That, gentlemen,
was all happening in real time.
So you see we're just as powerful
as the United States.
As long as you don't violate our rights,
then I'll be happy
to keep you safe and sound.
Think about it.
[Bush] I understand.
Okay, great!
Looks like our mission's complete, then.
[birds chirping]
[old man] Guevaru achieved
what everyone had thought was impossible,
an equitable independence from the US.
I see, but how did such a capable man
end up landing himself in prison?
The answer to that's simple.
Who else is here?
Oh!
Yes.
-[dramatic sting]
-The strongest fighter in all of America,
Biscuit Oliva.
[dramatic music building]
A man who stands equal to George Bush
without even using any weapons at all.
A man that the President sees
as a major thorn in his side.
He wants to fight Oliva
and bring him down with his bare hands.
For Guevaru,
that's a tantalizing opportunity.
There are countless men in here
thinking to themselves,
"I want to fight Oliva."
-[music fades]
-Just like you, Baki.
[closing theme music plays]
Subtitle translation by: